### Application 1: Design-Build a Welcoming App 
**Topics:** Design-Build, User Input, String Functions, Formatted Print Statements

<hr>
### 1. Objective
**Purpose:**  
- This assignment shows you how visualizations are used in software design. 
- Describing the code (designing) always precedes writing it, ensuring accuracy and efficiency.

**Pathway:**
1) Understand the design-build process: **Design first** (describe) >> **Build later** (code).
2) Streamline the design process by using a `design document` template, such as a Markdown list, pseudocode, UML diagram, or flowchart.
3) The `design document` (also known as a specification) outlines the `algorithm` or logic flow of the app, including all necessary rules for coding. 
4) A `design doc` is also called a `specification` or a software specification. 
5) The `algorithm` must contain all the rules needed for the coder to create the app.

This process will be demonstrated for a simple user-prompt app.

<hr>

### 2. Learning Outcomes

- **Design:** Create a design document in Markdown format.
- **Develop:** Translate the design into a working Python program.
- **Troubleshoot:** Identify and correct logical errors during coding, documenting them in a Change Log.

<hr>

### 3. Assignment Instructions

**Part 1-1: Initialize a Design Document**  
- **Working Title:** Provide a meaningful title for your app.
- **Author Information:** Include your name.
- **Description:** Write a short description of the algorithm or app.
- **Representations:** Markdown List

**Part 1--2: Define the Algorithm
- Declare a program START to initiate the algorithm. 
- Define the first step (program flow) to take place.
- Define each step in the program flow.
- When all steps have been defined, declare a program STOP 

**Part 2: Create the Application**  
- **Translation:** Convert the design document into a working Python app.
- **Change Log:** If you encounter logic errors during coding (for example, steps out of order, missing loops), make the necessary corrections in the code. Document these changes in a multi-line comment section titled **"Change Log"** at the top of your code.

<hr>

### 4. Submission Requirements

- **Design Document:** Submit a design document. Markdown (.md), PDF (.pdf) or MS Word (.docx) document types.
- **Python Code:** Submit a Python file (.py). Add a change log section (if applicable).

<hr>

### 5. Success Criteria
- **Design Document:**  
  - Header exists (app title, description, author, date)
  - Readability and visual space (indentation, blank lines) 
  - Clarity of the algorithm (for example, steps, 1, 2, 3).
  - Accuracy (completeness) of the algorithm (for example, gather data before computing)

- **Python Code:**  
  - Accurate implementation of the algorithm, design.
  - Correct (syntax) without warnings or other code issues.
  - Test-driven to find errors and discover logic issues. 
  - **Change Log:**  
    - When an algorithm is not complete, comment each improvement/change in this section.
    - from `Markdown 4-1) Print Formatted "Aloha Issac, your lucky number is {generate lucky number}" ` 
    - to `python print(f'\nAloha {proper_name}, your lucky number is {string_length}.') ` or {len(proper_name)} 
<hr>

### 6. Demonstration: Design Document and Code

**Design Document Example:**

**The Lucky Name App.**  
- **App Type:** Entertainment, Self Improvement  
- **Author:** Clinton Garwood  
- **August 2024** 
- **Description:** A user is welcomed to the app and asked to type in their name. Python built in string library functions are used to generate formatting variations (for example, raymond > Raymond > RAYMOND). A lucky number can be generated by computing the length of the string received. 
- **Algorithm:** Markdown List

**Algorithm as Markdown:**

``` markdown
Start Program
1) Print Formatted: "Welcome to Lucky Name"
2) Get Information 
   2-1) Print Formatted "Please enter your name: "  
   2-2) Save user data received (user_data)
3) Manage Information Received 
   3-1) Count the characters entered len(user_data)
   3-2) Convert the string to proper noun title case user_data.title() 
4) Reply to the User: (i.e., user_data = "isaac")
   4-1) Print Formatted "Aloha Isaac, your lucky number is {generate lucky number}"
End Program

```

### Algorithm Versions:

Program Design by Code Modules: 
Start Program
1) Print Formatted: "Welcome to Lucky Name"
2) Get Information 
3) Manage Information Received 
4) Reply to the User:
End Program

Program Design (filter on) Print Statements : 
Start Program
1) Print: "Welcome to Lucky Name"
2) Print Formatted "Please enter your name: "
3) Print Formatted "Aloha Isaac, your lucky number: {generate lucky number}"
End Program

<hr>

**Sample Application as Python Code** 

```python
""" 
App: The Lucky Name App
Description: A lucky number is generated when a user enters their name.  
Author: Clinton Garwood
Date: August 2024
License: MIT 
"""

print(f'\nWelcome to the Lucky Name App')

# Get Information 
user_data = input(f'Please enter your name: ')

# Manage Information Received 
string_length = len(user_data)  # count characters in string len()
proper_name = user_data.title()  # title() method

# Reply to the User
print(f'\nAloha {proper_name}, your lucky number is {string_length}.')

```

<hr>

